With our coat now nicely organized
with some variables in nesting,
we are now ready to implement the CSS architecture
that we've been talking about earlier.
What I mean is a 7-1 pattern where we create seven
folders and one main SASS file to import all
the files that are in these folders.
So, Let's start by creating the base folder
which is where we're going to put
our basic project definitions.
Like a project boiler plate.
So new folder.
Base.
So all of these folders are going to be
inside the SASS folder of course.
Now, inside this base folder,
we should have a file which is also called base.
So a base SASS file.
This file will be for the real low level basics,
such as resets and styles for the HML
and body element selectors.
Note this file should be a partial
so we can later import it into the main SASS file.
Remember the first lecture ever that we had about SASS?
Back then I talked about partials and imports,
so that's what I'm meaning here.
The partial files they always start with an
underscore.
Like this.
If I want to call this file base,
then I just have to write is _base.scss,
and that's it.
Now this is a partial SASS file. OK?
So, that's actually imported into our main file.
I will put it here at the top.
And all we have to do now is simply write @import
and then the path to the file.
So, it is in the base folder. Right?
Because remember we are in the main file zoom
so we are here in the folder system,
so from here we just have to move into the base folder,
and then from there we select the base file.
Now we don't have to use the underscore.
All we have to do is...base
So no underscore and no .scss.
This is enough for SASS to understand
what we want to import here. OK?
And that's it.
Now some other files that you usually want in the base
folder are files for animations.
So animations.scss.
Then we usually also have a file for typography
so typography.scss.
So we're going to fill all these files
over the next lectures. OK?
And another one for utilities as well.
And, again you'll see it in one of the next lectures.
So, utilities.scss.
That's enough for the base folder.
They keep opening up here but we can just close them.
This one as well. Alright.
Now once you see the whole picture,
with all of the folders and all of the files,
then everything will fall into place and
make more sense to you.
Now, I want you to keep in mind that
this architecture is really
designed to handle large multi-page websites or web apps.
So maybe for a small landing page
like the project we're working on here,
this might seem like a bit too much, a bit overkill.
But once you start working on a huge project then you'll
appreciate how this makes things easier,
so it's really important to have an architecture like this
in place especially when we're working on a larger project.
Okay, but let's move on and create another folder here.
This one is called abstract.
In this folder we're only going to put code
that's not going to output any css.
We already saw what type of code is that:
variables, mixins, and stuff like that.
Let's actually put these files in here.
Now to make my life a bit easier,
I'd will actually do it using the command line.
But you of course if you don't like the terminal already,
you can do it by hand in your code editor.
I will just move to SASS,
and then abstract,
and then I will use touch to add files here.
On Windows, you can use the edit command.
As I was saying, the files that we want here
are for variables,
for mixins,
and for functions.
You can see that I can write all of these files
that I want to create in one line in the touch command.
Here are these three files that I just created.
Alright, next up, let's create a components folder.
In that folder we're then going to create
one file for each of our components.
Remember, that components are our reusable building blocks
that make up our website or apps.
They should also be usable anywhere on the page
so that they are completely independent
and held together by the layout of the page.
So, let's create that folder.
Components.
For now we're going to leave it empty
because we don't really have a component yet.
Actually, we do have, but let's worry about that later.
This is the components folder and remember that
the components are held together by the layout of the page.
Since I was talking about layouts,
we also need a layout folder for
each piece of the global layout of the entire project.
In the layout folder, we're going to have a
global footer, header, et cetera...so stuff like that.
So mkdir layout.
Remember this architecture is designed
for multi-page projects so these layout elements
should work everywhere and on all pages.
Again, our components are our building blocks
which are independent and reusable everywhere
across our website and the layout is
what holds all of these components together.
But, again we are going to see how that works
when we really dive deep into the project.
Now, if you have very specific styles
for a specific page, like for example, a homepage;
we can then create a new file for that specific page
and we do that in the pages folder.
So, mkdir pages.
That's actually what going to happen in our case
because we can treat the landing page that we're building
as like the home page, and there will certainly be
styles that are only going apply to that page.
Then later on, if our fictional company will expand
and add more pages, then they can have
different styles for the other different pages.
So, let's actually create that one.
So, pages and then touch
home
dot scss,
then go back.
So, these are the most important folders
that we're going to use the most.
But, you see that we only have five folders so far,
so there are still two missing.
So, the 7-1 architecture also has a folder
for themes in case that you're doing like
web apps with different themes, and there is also
a vendors folder where we can put third party css.
For example, the scss file off the boot strap,
or an icon system, or an animation framework. Alright?
For now, we're going to leave these empty in this project.
Now, what we have to do is to, of course,
import all of these files here into the main file.
So, for now we don't have much here,
but let's now import what we have.
Actually, I'm just going to copy this one.
So, for the base we have animations,
actually that's once more,
so animations
base,
typography
and utilities.
Alright?
Now, in the abstract, which actually comes before,
so let's put it before here.
So import,
abstracts and then functions,
and let me just copy this entire....
mixins and then variables.
Alright.
So, abstracts, base, components is still empty
so nothing there, layout as well and now pages.
So, import,
pages
and home.
So, what I suggest we do next is to actually sort
all of this code into different files,
because the goal is that in the end this main
file only serves to import all the other files.
So, there will be no code here in this file
except for all these import declarations. OK?
So, let's put all of this code where it belongs.
So, these are variables, and we know that there
is a file just for that.
So, that's it. Let's see if our SASS already compiled here.
Well, it seems like something is going wrong here.
Let's just close this one and let's try it again. OK?
Actually, we can do it here. Clear.
And, remember how it works? We just have to write
mpm run and then the name of our
script that we wrote here.
So, it called compile and sass.
So, compile:sass.
Now it's waiting for, that we make some change here
because this W flag here, it only works on changes.
So, let's just change something here.
I don't know, we can just delete this from here, actually.
Let's just save it and see what it does.
So, here we go. Now it's working again.
This should be reloaded automatically and
so you see that it still works which means
that our import here was successful.
We can actually check it out here as well.
Yeah, so everything is still working just fine.
So, this is our variables file and we are going to
add a lot of variables in here over the next lectures,
but for now let's just close it. OK?
So, these things here they are going into the base file. OK?
So, base, because here are the basic definitions
about our entire project.
Next, we have this animations file here
and we have some animations here, right?
So, let's put them in there.
So, key frames and all of this code.
So, now it all nicely separated.
Whenever we want to see animation, check out
how they work or change something, we already know
all we have to do is go into this animations file.
So, great.
Now, the button, and actually we can say that
the button is a component, because it's certainly a block.
So, we can call it the component.
It's reusable across the page, it's independent,
it works everywhere and it's a building block
that we can use wherever we want on our page.
So, let's actually create a new file here
in the components. OK?
This time I'm going to do it here in editor.
So, button dot scss.
I'm going to put the code in there.
So, the entire button code goes here. OK?
Now, of course, never forget that we
have to import it, right?
So, base and then components. So, here.
Import.
So, now we imported this file.
We can close it. So, what else do we have here?
We have the header.
Now the header, I'm not going to treat
as a component. I'm actually going to treat it
as a layout element.
So we know that, probably on each page,
that we'll have on in this website,
but once again imagine that the website
is going to expand, and then on each page
we're going to have this header, right?
So, this is the layout.
So, let's add a file here in the layout for the header.
Header dot scss. OK.
Now, this is a bit subjective, of course.
I mean, there's no right and wrong
in how you divide your code.
So, if you will say that this is a component,
then maybe you're not wrong and you can, of course,
then go ahead and create a component for this code.
I think this is better organized
as being an element of our layout.
So, simply just a question of how we name things here,
but I like to say that it's layout.
So, I create a file in the layout folder.
Then, of course, I have to include it in here as well.
So, import,
layout, then header.
Now, all of this process might seem a bit
cumbersome to you, a bit boring and a bit too much work,
but, of course, ideally you start by doing this right
from the beginning. You will start to write your css
the way we did it, and then you'll sort everything
into these folders.
Now, ideally, you'll start right from the beginning
of the project by having this organization
and this is architecture. Right?
This is just because I didn't want to start the course
with this difficult stuff, with this more confusing stuff;
I just wanted to start the course with coding.
So, now we have to quickly go through this process
and convert everything to this new architecture. OK?
Now, what else do we have?
The heading primary, and that's it.
So, the heading primary, I will classify it
as being an element or for typography. OK?
So, let's open this typography here
and put this here.
So, again you could argue that this is a component
and I couldn't say that you are wrong,
but I like to organize this piece of code
here into my typography file,
because it's really really related to typography
in this case and so this seems to the
most intuitive place for me when
I will be looking for the heading.
Alright, and something else that you should do
is if you look at this base here,
you will see that we also have a lot
of typography stuff in here.
So, actually, we should move this to typography.
So, everything that is typography related
we should have right in this file.
So this entire code here, not all of the code,
but everything except this one here,
should go to the typography here.
So, everything except this part.
So then here, we just delete everything except this one.
OK, so everything that is related to
typography is now in here.
Now you could argue once more that
this font size here is also for a typography,
and while I also agree with that, we saw before
when we did our conversion to RAMS
that this acts more like an overall setting
for how we size our entire page. Right?
So, I don't see this as much as typography.
I see this more like a base definition,
a global definition which defines
what one RAM should be.
Let me actually write it down here. OK.
This defines what one one RAM is,
and that's why I'm going to leave it here,
because that's what it is really.
So, we have a reset here,
and this box sizing is actually part of it,
and then here is overall one RAM setting
is also here in our base.
So we have base animations, we have typography,
then we're going to add some utilities here later.
We already have one component, we have one
piece of the layout, homes is still
empty right now, variables, mixins, and we don't
have any mixins yet, and also no function.
So let's leave them empty for now.
So, this package jason, I can also close it.
This one as well. This one and okay.
So, don't need any of this and alright.
So that is our architecture.
So again, you might not need all of these
different files and folders for
a really small project like this one,
but I really want you to get used to the structure,
because if you don't organize you SASS files like this,
if you just have a bunch of unrelated files
or even everything in just one file
it will become a real nightmare when
you someday have to maintain all this code.
Imagine if you have ten thousand lines of code one day
and then you want to maintain all of this,
you want to change something very deep
in the code and then it will be really difficult.
So it's always best to start this from the beginning
and then keep using this system all
throughout the project.
That's what I wanted to show you in this lecture
and overall in this entire course really,
because I have been talking a lot about maintenance
and all that stuff because it's really important
for a professional css developer like
you want to become.